# QTY-dynamics-EAA13
### Abstract
Glutamate transporters EAA1-3 play a key role in central nervous system physiology in their role in excitatory neurotransmitter homeostasis. Accordingly, their modulations have found themselves an immerse roles in various neurological conditions. Understanding the structural dynamics and conformational changes of these membrane proteins is essential for revealing their functional mechanisms. Notably, interactions with other molecules, such as lipids and solvents, are critical for the modulation of glutamate transporters. On the other hand, functional studies of membrane proteins, particularly transmembrane proteins, remained a daunting task that required the usage of detergents. To address this issue, we have developed a simple tool, the QTY code (glutamine, threonine, and tyrosine), for designing hydrophobic domains to become water-soluble without a need for detergents.  Previous studies indicate QTY-variants have structurally resembled their native counterparts and already identified evolutionary characteristics of the QTY-code. However, whatever their dynamics and conformational space affected after QTY-code substitutions have remained unstudied. Our study revealed that hydrophobic interactions of native helices and acyl tails were correlated with water interactions of QTY-helices. Furthermore, our results indicate that these water-soluble QTY-variants exhibit similarities in residue-wise conformational dynamics to their native counterparts in lipid bilayers (r=0.73 and 0.56, namely for EAA1 and EAA3). Our comparative genomics studies further elucidated conformational flexibility and its relationships with evolutionary conservation. The molecular dynamics studies on glutamate transporters offer insights into their conformational states, neurotransmission, and lipid interactions which are potential drug targets for physiological or pathological processes. 

Key Words: Molecular Dynamics, Lipid Interactions, Protein 3D structural predictions, Water-soluble integral membrane proteins. 
